diovan	D/C when pregnancy is detected. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) can cause injury/death to the developing fetus.
levoxyl	Do not use for the treatment of obesity or weight loss; doses within range of daily hormonal requirements are ineffective for weight reduction in euthyroid patients. Serious or life-threatening manifestations of toxicity may occur when given in larger doses, particularly when given in association with sympathomimetic amines.
cozaar	D/C when pregnancy is detected. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) can cause injury/death to the developing fetus.
trizivir	Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, reported with nucleoside analogues. Abacavir: Serious and sometimes fatal hypersensitivity reactions (multiorgan clinical syndrome) reported; d/c as soon as suspected and never restart therapy or any other abacavir-containing product. Patients with HLA-B*5701 allele are at high risk for hypersensitivity; screen for HLA-B*5701 allele prior to therapy. Zidovudine: Associated with hematologic toxicity (eg, neutropenia, severe anemia), particularly with advanced HIV-1 disease. Symptomatic myopathy associated with prolonged use. Lamivudine: Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B reported in patients coinfected with hepatitis B virus (HBV) and HIV-1 and have discontinued therapy; closely monitor hepatic function for at least several months. If appropriate, initiation of antihepatitis B therapy may be warranted.
rituxan	Serious, including fatal infusion reactions reported; deaths within 24 hrs of infusion have occurred. Monitor patients closely. D/C for severe reaction and treat for Grade 3/4 reactions. Severe, including fatal, mucocutaneous reactions may occur. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation can occur, in some cases resulting in fulminant hepatitis, hepatic failure, and death. Screen all patients for HBV infection before treatment initiation; monitor patients during and after treatment. D/C therapy and concomitant medications in the event of HBV reactivation. Fatal progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) may occur.
rebetol	Not for monotherapy treatment of chronic hepatitis C (CHC) virus infection. Primary toxicity is hemolytic anemia. Anemia associated with therapy may result in worsening of cardiac disease and lead to fatal and nonfatal myocardial infarctions. Avoid with history of significant/unstable cardiac disease. Contraindicated in women who are pregnant and in male partners of pregnant women. Extreme care must be taken to avoid pregnancy during therapy and for 6 months after completion of therapy. Use at least 2 reliable forms of effective contraception during treatment and for 6 months after discontinuation.
elidel	Rare cases of malignancy (eg, skin and lymphoma) reported with topical calcineurin inhibitors, including pimecrolimus, although causal relationship is not established. Avoid long-term use, and application should be limited to areas of involvement with atopic dermatitis. Not indicated for children <2 yrs or age.
cellcept	Use during pregnancy is associated with increased risks of 1st trimester pregnancy loss and congenital malformations; counsel females of reproductive potential regarding pregnancy prevention and planning. Immunosuppression may lead to increased susceptibility to infection and possible development of lymphoma. Only physicians experienced in immunosuppressive therapy and management of renal, cardiac or hepatic transplant patients should prescribe mycophenolate mofetil. Manage patients in facilities equipped and staffed with adequate lab and supportive medical resources. Physician responsible for maintenance therapy should have complete information requisite for follow-up of the patient.
zoloft	Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults in short-term studies of major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Monitor and observe closely for clinical worsening, suicidality, or unusual changes in behavior in patients who are started on antidepressant therapy. Not approved for use in pediatric patients except for patients with obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD).
nuvaring	Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) events. Risk increases with age and with number of cigarettes smoked. Not for use by women >35 yrs of age and smoke.
aviane	Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) side effects. This risk increases with age (>35 yrs) and with heavy smoking (≥15 cigarettes/day). Women who use oral contraceptives should be strongly advised not to smoke.
invega	Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death; most deaths appeared to be cardiovascular (CV) (eg, heart failure, sudden death) or infectious (eg, pneumonia) in nature. Not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis.
plavix	Effectiveness is dependent on activation to an active metabolite via CYP2C19. Poor metabolizers of CYP2C19 with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) or undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention treated with clopidogrel at recommended doses exhibit higher cardiovascular (CV) event rates than patients with normal CYP2C19 function. Tests are available to identify a patient's CYP2C19 genotype; these tests can be used as an aid in determining therapeutic strategy. Consider alternative treatment or treatment strategies in patients identified as CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
xarelto	Premature discontinuation increases the risk of thrombotic events. If therapy is discontinued for a reason other than pathological bleeding or completion of a course of therapy, consider coverage with another anticoagulant. Epidural or spinal hematomas have occurred in patients treated with rivaroxaban who are receiving neuraxial anesthesia or undergoing spinal puncture; long-term or permanent paralysis may result. Increased risk of developing epidural or spinal hematomas in patients using indwelling epidural catheters, concomitant use of other drugs that affect hemostasis (eg, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, other anticoagulants), history of traumatic or repeated epidural or spinal puncture, history of spinal deformity or spinal surgery, and when optimal timing between the administration of therapy and neuraxial procedure is not known. Monitor frequently for signs/symptoms of neurological impairment; urgent treatment is necessary if neurological compromise occurs. Consider benefits and risks before neuraxial intervention in patients anticoagulated or to be anticoagulated for thromboprophylaxis.
actiq	Fatal respiratory depression may occur. Contraindicated in the management of acute or postoperative pain (eg, headache/migraine) and in opioid-nontolerant patients. Death reported upon accidental ingestion in children; keep out of reach of children. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase plasma levels, and may cause fatal respiratory depression. Do not convert patients on a mcg-per-mcg basis from any other fentanyl products to Actiq. Do not substitute for any other fentanyl products; may result in fatal overdose. Contains fentanyl with abuse liability similar to other opioid analgesics. Available only through a restricted program called Transmucosal Immediate Release Fentanyl (TIRF) Risk Evaluation Mitigation Strategy (REMS) Access program due to risk of misuse, abuse, addiction, and overdose. Outpatients, healthcare professionals who prescribe to outpatients, pharmacies, and distributors must enroll in the program.
pradaxa	Premature discontinuation of therapy increases the risk of thrombotic events. If therapy is discontinued for a reason other than pathological bleeding, consider coverage with another anticoagulant. Epidural or spinal hematomas may occur in patients treated with dabigatran who are receiving neuraxial anesthesia or undergoing spinal puncture; may result in long-term or permanent paralysis. Consider these risks when scheduling for spinal procedures. Increased risk of developing epidural or spinal hematomas with the use of indwelling epidural catheters, concomitant use of other drugs that affect hemostasis (eg, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, other anticoagulants), history of traumatic or repeated epidural or spinal punctures, history of spinal deformity or spinal surgery, or unknown optimal timing between the administration of therapy and neuraxial procedures. Monitor frequently for signs/symptoms of neurological impairment; if neurologic compromise is noted, urgent treatment is necessary. Consider benefits and risks before neuraxial intervention in patients anticoagulated or to be anticoagulated.
geodon oral	Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death; most deaths appeared to be cardiovascular (CV) (eg, heart failure [HF], sudden death) or infectious (eg, pneumonia) in nature. Not approved for treatment of dementia-related psychosis.
pletal	Contraindicated with congestive heart failure (CHF) of any severity due to possible decrease in survival.
prograf	Immunosuppression may lead to increased risk of lymphoma and other malignancies, particularly of the skin. Increased susceptibility to infections (bacterial, viral, fungal, protozoal, opportunistic). Should only be prescribed by physicians experienced in immunosuppressive therapy and management of organ transplant patients.
testim	Virilization reported in children secondarily exposed to testosterone gel. Children should avoid contact with unwashed or unclothed application sites in men using testosterone gel. Advise patients to strictly adhere to recommended instructions for use.
vyvanse	CNS stimulants (amphetamines and methylphenidate-containing products) have a high potential for abuse and dependence. Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy.
vivelle-dot	Estrogens increase the risk of endometrial cancer. Perform adequate diagnostic measures, including endometrial sampling, to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurrent abnormal genital bleeding. Should not be used for the prevention of cardiovascular (CV) disease or dementia. Increased risk of myocardial infarction (MI), pulmonary embolism (PE), stroke, invasive breast cancer, and deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in postmenopausal women (50-79 yrs of age) reported. Increased risk of developing probable dementia in postmenopausal women ≥65 yrs of age reported. Should be prescribed at the lowest effective dose and for the shortest duration consistent with treatment goals and risks.
ocella	Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) side effects from combination oral contraceptive (COC) use. Risk increases with age (>35 yrs of age) and with the number of cigarettes smoked. Should not be used by women who are >35 yrs of age and smoke.
benicar hct	D/C when pregnancy is detected. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) can cause injury/death to the developing fetus.
humira	Increased risk of serious infections (eg, active tuberculosis [TB] including latent TB reactivation, invasive fungal, bacterial, viral, and other infections due to opportunistic pathogens) leading to hospitalization or death, mostly with concomitant use of immunosuppressants (eg, methotrexate [MTX], corticosteroids). D/C if serious infection or sepsis develops. Active/latent reactivation TB patients have frequently presented with disseminated or extrapulmonary disease; test for latent TB before and during therapy and initiate treatment for latent TB prior to adalimumab use. Invasive fungal infections reported; consider empiric antifungal therapy in patients at risk who develop severe systemic illness. Monitor patients closely for development of infection during and after treatment, including development of TB in patients who tested negative for latent TB infection prior to therapy. Lymphoma and other malignancies, some fatal, reported in children and adolescents. Postmarketing cases of aggressive and fatal hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (HSTCL) reported in patients with Crohn's disease (CD) or ulcerative colitis (UC) and the majority were in adolescent and young adult males; all of these patients were treated concomitantly with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine.
lovenox	Epidural or spinal hematomas resulting in long-term or permanent paralysis may occur in patients anticoagulated with low molecular weight heparins (LMWH) or heparinoids and are receiving neuraxial anesthesia or undergoing spinal puncture. Increased risk with indwelling epidural catheters, concomitant use of other drugs that affect hemostasis (eg, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, other anticoagulants), history of traumatic or repeated epidural or spinal punctures, a history of spinal deformity or spinal surgery, or when optimal timing between the administration of enoxaparin and neuraxial procedures is not known. Monitor frequently for signs/symptoms of neurological impairment; if neurological compromise noted, urgent treatment is necessary. Consider benefit and risks before neuraxial intervention in patients anticoagulated or to be anticoagulated for thromboprophylaxis.
endocet	Associated with cases of acute liver failure, at times resulting in liver transplant and death. Most cases of liver injury are associated with acetaminophen (APAP) use at doses >4000mg/day, and often involve >1 APAP-containing product.
adderall xr	High potential for abuse; prolonged use may lead to drug dependence. Misuse may cause sudden death and serious cardiovascular (CV) adverse reactions.
abilify	Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death; most deaths appeared to be either cardiovascular (CV) (eg, heart failure [HF], sudden death) or infectious (eg, pneumonia) in nature. Not approved for treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis. Antidepressants increased risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults in short-term studies of major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Monitor and observe closely for clinical worsening, suicidality, or unusual changes in behavior in patients who are started on antidepressant therapy. Not approved for use in pediatric patients with depression.
ortho tri-cyclen lo	Cigarette smoking increases risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) side effects. Risk increases with age and with heavy smoking (≥15 cigarettes/day) and is quite marked in women over >35 yrs of age. Women who use oral contraceptives are strongly advised not to smoke.
concerta	Caution with history of drug dependence or alcoholism. Chronic abusive use may lead to marked tolerance and psychological dependence with varying degrees of abnormal behavior. Frank psychotic episodes may occur, especially with parenteral abuse. Careful supervision is required during withdrawal from abusive use since severe depression may occur. Withdrawal following chronic use may unmask symptoms of underlying disorder that may require follow-up.
epivir	Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, reported with nucleoside analogues; suspend treatment if lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity occurs. Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B reported in patients coinfected with hepatitis B virus (HBV) upon discontinuation of therapy; closely monitor hepatic function for at least several months. If appropriate, initiation of anti-hepatitis B therapy may be warranted. Epivir tabs and sol, used to treat HIV-1 infection, contain higher dose of lamivudine than Epivir-HBV tabs and sol, used to treat chronic HBV infection; only use appropriate dosing forms for HIV-1 treatment.
focalin xr	Caution with history of drug dependence or alcoholism. Marked tolerance and psychological dependence with varying degrees of abnormal behavior may occur with chronic abusive use. Frank psychotic episodes may occur, especially with parenteral abuse. Careful supervision is required during withdrawal from abusive use, since severe depression may occur. Withdrawal following chronic therapeutic use may unmask symptoms of underlying disorder that may require follow-up.
lamictal	Serious life-threatening rashes, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and/or rash-related death reported. Serious rash occurs more often in pediatric patients than in adults. D/C at 1st sign of rash unless rash is clearly not drug related. Potential increased risk with concomitant valproate (including valproic acid and divalproex sodium) or exceeding the recommended initial dose/dose escalation.
atacand	D/C when pregnancy is detected. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) can cause injury/death to the developing fetus.
kadian	Contains morphine, an opioid agonist and a Schedule II controlled substance with an abuse liability similar to other opioid agonists, legal or illicit; assess each patient's risk for opioid abuse or addiction prior to prescribing. Routinely monitor for signs of misuse, abuse, and addiction. Respiratory depression, including fatal cases, may occur even when used as recommended; proper dosing and titration are essential. Monitor for respiratory depression, especially during initiation or following a dose increase. Should only be prescribed by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable in the use of potent opioids for the management of chronic pain. Swallow cap whole, or sprinkle contents of cap on applesauce and swallow without chewing; crushing, dissolving, or chewing the pellets within the cap can cause rapid release and absorption of a potentially fatal dose. Accidental consumption, especially in children, can result in fatal overdose.
herceptin	May result in cardiac failure; incidence and severity were highest with anthracycline-containing chemotherapy regimens. Evaluate left ventricular function prior to and during treatment; d/c in patients receiving adjuvant therapy and withhold in patients with metastatic disease for clinically significant decrease in left ventricular function. May result in serious and fatal infusion reactions and pulmonary toxicity; interrupt infusion for dyspnea or clinically significant hypotension, and monitor until symptoms completely resolve. D/C for anaphylaxis, angioedema, interstitial pneumonitis, or acute respiratory distress syndrome. Exposure during pregnancy may result in oligohydramnios and oligohydramnios sequence manifesting as pulmonary hypoplasia, skeletal abnormalities, and neonatal death.
hyzaar	D/C when pregnancy is detected. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) can cause injury/death to the developing fetus.
celexa	Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults in short-term studies of major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Monitor and observe closely for clinical worsening, suicidality, or unusual changes in behavior in patients who are started on antidepressant therapy. Not approved for use in pediatric patients.
paxil	Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in short-term studies in children, adolescents, and young adults with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Monitor and observe closely for clinical worsening, suicidality, or unusual changes in behavior in patients who are started on antidepressant therapy. Not approved for use in pediatric patients.
atripla	Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, reported with the use of nucleoside analogues. Not approved for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B reported in patients coinfected with HBV upon discontinuation of therapy; closely monitor hepatic function for at least several months. If appropriate, initiation of anti-hepatitis B therapy may be warranted.
prempro	Estrogens increase the risk of endometrial cancer. Perform adequate diagnostic measures, including endometrial sampling, to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding. Should not be used for the prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD) or dementia. Increased risk of myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, invasive breast cancer, pulmonary embolism (PE), and deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in postmenopausal women (50-79 yrs of age) reported. Increased risk of developing probable dementia in postmenopausal women ≥65 yrs of age reported. Should be prescribed at the lowest effective dose and for the shortest duration consistent with treatment goals and risks.
depakote er	Fatal hepatic failure may occur, usually during first 6 months of treatment. Serious/fatal hepatotoxicity may be preceded by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise, weakness, lethargy, facial edema, anorexia, and vomiting, or loss of seizure control in patients with epilepsy. Monitor LFTs prior to therapy and at frequent intervals thereafter, especially during first 6 months of treatment. Increased risk of developing fatal hepatotoxicity in children <2 yrs of age, especially if on multiple anticonvulsants, with congenital metabolic disorders, severe seizure disorders with mental retardation, and organic brain disease; use with extreme caution and as a sole agent. Increased risk of drug-induced acute liver failure and resultant deaths in patients with hereditary neurometabolic syndromes caused by DNA mutations of the mitochondrial DNA Polymerase gamma (POLG) gene (eg, Alpers Huttenlocher Syndrome). Contraindicated in patients known to have mitochondrial disorders caused by POLG mutations and children <2 yrs of age who are clinically suspected of having a mitochondrial disorder. In patients >2 yrs of age who are clinically suspected of having a hereditary mitochondrial disease, drug should only be used after other anticonvulsants have failed; closely monitor for the development of acute liver injury with regular clinical assessments and serum liver testing. May cause major congenital malformations, particularly neural tube defects (eg, spina bifida). May cause decreased IQ scores following in utero exposure. Contraindicated in pregnant women treated for prophylaxis of migraine; should only be used to treat pregnant women with epilepsy or bipolar disorder if other medications have failed to control their symptoms or are otherwise unacceptable. Do not administer to a woman of childbearing potential unless the drug is essential to the management of her medical condition; use effective contraception. Life-threatening pancreatitis reported; d/c if pancreatitis is diagnosed and initiate appropriate treatment.
avapro	D/C when pregnancy is detected. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) can cause injury/death to the developing fetus.
arava	Pregnancy must be excluded before start of treatment. Avoid pregnancy during treatment or before completion of drug elimination procedure after treatment. Severe liver injury, including fatal liver failure, reported; not for use with preexisting acute or chronic liver disease, or those with serum ALT >2X ULN before initiating treatment. Caution with other potentially hepatotoxic drugs. Monitor ALT levels at least monthly for 6 months after starting therapy, and thereafter every 6-8 weeks. Interrupt therapy if ALT elevation >3X ULN; if likely leflunomide-induced, start cholestyramine washout and monitor liver tests weekly until normalized. If leflunomide-induced liver injury is unlikely, may consider resuming therapy.
avelox	Fluoroquinolones are associated with an increased risk of tendinitis and tendon rupture in all ages. Risk is further increased in patients >60 yrs of age, patients taking corticosteroids, and with kidney, heart, or lung transplants. May exacerbate muscle weakness with myasthenia gravis; avoid in patients with known history of myasthenia gravis.
ortho evra	Cigarette smoking increases risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) events, particularly in women >35 years of age, and with the number of cigarettes smoked. Should not be used by women who are >35 yrs of age and smoke. May increase risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) among users of Ortho Evra compared to women who use certain oral contraceptives. Has higher steady state concentrations and a lower peak concentration than oral contraceptives.
glucovance	Lactic acidosis may occur due to metformin accumulation; risk increases with congestive heart failure (CHF), degree of renal dysfunction, and patient's age. Regularly monitor renal function and use the minimum effective dose of metformin. Do not initiate in patients ≥80 yrs of age unless measurement of CrCl demonstrates that renal function is not reduced. Promptly withhold therapy in the presence of any condition associated with hypoxemia, dehydration, or sepsis. Avoid with clinical or lab evidence of hepatic disease. Caution against excessive alcohol intake; alcohol potentiates the effects of metformin on lactate metabolism. Temporarily d/c therapy prior to any intravascular radiocontrast study and for any surgical procedure. D/C use immediately and promptly institute general supportive measures if lactic acidosis occurs. Prompt hemodialysis is recommended to correct the acidosis and remove the accumulated metformin.
norvir	Coadministration with several classes of drugs, including sedative hypnotics, antiarrhythmics, or ergot alkaloid preparations may result in potentially serious and/or life-threatening adverse events due to possible effects of ritonavir (RTV) on the hepatic metabolism of certain drugs. Review medications taken by patients prior to prescribing RTV or when prescribing other medications to patients already taking RTV.
aranesp	Increased risk of death, myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, venous thromboembolism (VTE), thrombosis of vascular access, and tumor progression or recurrence. Use the lowest dose sufficient to reduce/avoid the need for RBC transfusions. Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD): Greater risks for death, serious adverse cardiovascular (CV) reactions, and stroke when administered to target Hgb level of >11g/dL. Cancer: Shortened overall survival and/or increased risk of tumor progression or recurrence in patients with breast, non-small cell lung, head and neck, lymphoid, and cervical cancers. Must enroll in and comply with the ESA APPRISE Oncology Program to prescribe and/or dispense drug to patients. Use only for anemia from myelosuppressive chemotherapy. Not indicated for patients receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy when anticipated outcome is cure. D/C following completion of chemotherapy course.
budeprion sr	Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior in children, adolescents, and young adults in short-term trials. Monitor closely for worsening, and for emergence of suicidal thoughts and behavior. Advise families and caregivers of the need for close observation and communication with the prescriber. Serious neuropsychiatric reactions reported in patients taking bupropion for smoking cessation; not approved for smoking cessation. (Budeprion SR) Not approved for use in pediatric patients.
micardis	D/C when pregnancy is detected. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) can cause injury/death to the developing fetus.
arixtra	Epidural or spinal hematomas may occur in patients who are anticoagulated with low molecular weight heparins (LMWHs), heparinoids, or fondaparinux sodium and who are receiving neuraxial anesthesia or undergoing spinal puncture; may result in long-term or permanent paralysis. Increased risk of developing epidural or spinal hematomas in patients using indwelling epidural catheters, concomitant use of other drugs that affect hemostasis (eg, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, other anticoagulants), history of traumatic or repeated epidural or spinal puncture, or a history of spinal deformity or spinal surgery. Monitor frequently for signs/symptoms of neurologic impairment; if neurologic compromise noted, urgent treatment is necessary. Consider benefit and risks before neuraxial intervention in patients anticoagulated or to be anticoagulated for thromboprophylaxis.
levaquin	Fluoroquinolones are associated with an increased risk of tendinitis and tendon rupture in all ages. Risk is further increased with patients >60 yrs of age, patients taking corticosteroids, and with kidney, heart, or lung transplants. May exacerbate muscle weakness with myasthenia gravis; avoid in patients with known history of myasthenia gravis.
accupril	D/C if pregnancy is detected. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) can cause injury/death to the developing fetus.
combivir	Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, reported with nucleoside analogues; suspend treatment if lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity occurs. Lamivudine: Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B reported in patients coinfected with hepatitis B virus (HBV) upon discontinuation of therapy; closely monitor hepatic function for at least several months. If appropriate, initiation of anti-hepatitis B therapy may be warranted. Zidovudine: Associated with hematologic toxicity (eg, neutropenia, anemia), particularly with advanced HIV-1 disease. Symptomatic myopathy associated with prolonged use.
fentora	Fatal respiratory depression may occur. Contraindicated in the management of acute or postoperative pain (eg, headache/migraine) and in opioid-nontolerant patients. Keep out of reach of children. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase plasma levels, and may cause fatal respiratory depression. Do not convert patients on a mcg-per-mcg basis from any other fentanyl products to Fentora. Do not substitute for any other fentanyl products; may result in fatal overdose. Contains fentanyl with abuse liability similar to other opioid analgesics. Available only through a restricted program called TIRF REMS Access program (Transmucosal Immediate Release Fentanyl Risk Evaluation Mitigation Strategy) due to risk of misuse, abuse, addiction, and overdose. Outpatients, healthcare professionals who prescribe to outpatients, pharmacies, and distributors must enroll in the program.
micardis hct	D/C when pregnancy is detected. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) can cause injury/death to the developing fetus.
pegasys	May cause or aggravate fatal or life-threatening neuropsychiatric, autoimmune, ischemic, and infectious disorders. Monitor closely with periodic clinical and lab evaluations. D/C with severe or worsening signs or symptoms of these conditions. Use with ribavirin may cause birth defects, fetal death, and hemolytic anemia. Refer to the individual PI for more information on ribavirin.
duragesic	Exposes patients and other users to the risk of opioid addiction/abuse/misuse, which may lead to overdose and death; assess risk prior to therapy and monitor all patients regularly for development of these behaviors or conditions. Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression may occur; monitor especially during initiation or following a dose increase. Contraindicated for use as a PRN analgesic, in nonopioid tolerant patients, in acute pain, and in postoperative pain. Deaths due to fatal overdose have occurred from accidental exposure; strict adherence to handling/disposal instructions is of utmost importance to prevent accidental exposure. Prolonged use during pregnancy may result in neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome. Concomitant use with all CYP3A4 inhibitors and discontinuation of a concomitantly administered CYP3A4 inducer may increase plasma concentrations and potentially cause fatal respiratory depression; monitor patients during concomitant therapy. Exposure of application site and surrounding area to direct external heat sources may increase absorption and result in fatal overdose and death; patients who develop fever or increased core body temperature due to strenuous exertion are at increased risk and may require dose adjustment.
viramune	Severe, life-threatening, and in some cases fatal, hepatotoxicity (particularly in the first 18 weeks) and skin reactions (eg, Stevens-Johnson syndrome [SJS], toxic epidermal necrolysis [TEN], hypersensitivity reactions) reported. Increased risk of hepatotoxicity reported in women and patients with higher CD4
symbicort	Long-acting β
xolair	Anaphylaxis, presenting as bronchospasm, hypotension, syncope, urticaria, and/or angioedema of throat or tongue reported as early as after the 1st dose and beyond 1 yr of therapy; closely observe patients. Inform of the signs/symptoms of anaphylaxis and instruct to seek immediate medical care should symptoms occur.
androgel	Virilization reported in children secondarily exposed to testosterone gel. Children should avoid contact with unwashed or unclothed application sites in men using testosterone gel. Advise patients to strictly adhere to recommended instructions for use.
toprol xl	Exacerbation of angina and myocardial infarction (MI) reported following abrupt discontinuation. When discontinuing chronic therapy, particularly with ischemic heart disease, taper over 1-2 weeks with careful monitoring. If worsening of angina or acute coronary insufficiency develops, reinstate therapy promptly, at least temporarily, and take other appropriate measures. Caution patients against interruption or discontinuation of therapy without physician's advice.
opana er	Contains oxymorphone, an opioid agonist and Schedule II controlled substance with an abuse liability similar to other opioid agonists, legal or illicit; assess each patient's risk for opioid abuse or addiction prior to prescribing. Routinely monitor for signs of misuse, abuse, and addiction. Respiratory depression, including fatal cases, may occur even when used as recommended; proper dosing and titration are essential. Monitor for respiratory depression, especially during initiation or following a dose increase. Should only be prescribed by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable in the use of potent opioids for the management of chronic pain. Swallow tab whole; crushing, dissolving, or chewing may cause rapid release and absorption of a potentially fatal dose. Accidental ingestion, especially in children, can result in a fatal overdose. Avoid use with alcoholic beverages or medications containing alcohol; may result in increased plasma levels and potentially fatal overdose.
advair hfa	Long-acting β
thalomid	Severe birth defects or embryo-fetal death may occur if taken during pregnancy. Should never be used by pregnant women or females who could become pregnant. Approved for marketing only under a special restricted distribution program called the "THALOMID REMS program." May increase risk of venous thromboembolism in patients with multiple myeloma, especially with standard chemotherapeutic agents including dexamethasone; observe for signs/symptoms of thromboembolism. Instruct patients to seek medical care if symptoms such as SOB, chest pain, or arm or leg swelling develop. Consider thromboprophylaxis based on assessment of individual's underlying risk factors.
avalide	D/C when pregnancy is detected. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) can cause injury and death to the developing fetus.
epzicom	Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, reported with nucleoside analogues. Abacavir: Serious and sometimes fatal hypersensitivity reactions (multiorgan clinical syndrome) reported; d/c as soon as suspected and never restart therapy with any abacavir-containing product. Patients with HLA-B*5701 allele are at high risk for hypersensitivity; screen for HLA-B*5701 allele prior to therapy. Lamivudine: Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B reported in patients coinfected with hepatitis B virus (HBV) upon discontinuation of therapy; closely monitor hepatic function for at least several months. If appropriate, initiation of anti-hepatitis B therapy may be warranted.
amnesteem	Not for use by females who are or may become pregnant. Severe birth defects, including death, have been documented. Increased risk of spontaneous abortion and premature births reported. D/C immediately if pregnancy occurs during treatment and refer to an obstetrician-gynecologist experienced in reproductive toxicity for evaluation and counseling. Approved only under special restricted distribution program called iPLEDGE™. Prescribers, patients, pharmacies, and distributors must be registered and activated with the program.
benicar	D/C when pregnancy is detected. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) can cause injury/death to the developing fetus.
zyprexa	Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death; most deaths appeared to be cardiovascular (eg, heart failure, sudden death) or infectious (eg, pneumonia) in nature. Not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis. When used with fluoxetine, refer to the Boxed Warning section of the PI for Symbyax.
procrit	Increased risk of death, myocardial infarction, stroke, venous thromboembolism, thrombosis of vascular access, and tumor progression or recurrence. Use the lowest dose sufficient to reduce/avoid the need for RBC transfusions. Chronic kidney disease (CKD): Greater risks for death, serious adverse cardiovascular (CV) reactions, and stroke when administered to target Hgb level >11g/dL. Cancer: Shortened overall survival and/or increased risk of tumor progression or recurrence in patients with breast, non-small-cell lung, head and neck, lymphoid, and cervical cancers. Must enroll in and comply with the ESA APPRISE Oncology Program to prescribe and/or dispense drug to patients. Use only for anemia from myelosuppressive chemotherapy. Not indicated for patients receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy when anticipated outcome is cure. D/C following completion of chemotherapy course. Perisurgery: Due to increased risk of deep venous thrombosis (DVT), DVT prophylaxis is recommended.
diovan hct	D/C when pregnancy is detected. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) can cause injury/death to the developing fetus.
truvada	Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, reported with the use of nucleoside analogues in combination with other antiretrovirals. Not approved for treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B reported in patients coinfected with HBV and HIV-1 and have discontinued therapy; closely monitor hepatic function with both clinical and laboratory follow-up for at least several months. If appropriate, initiation of anti-hepatitis B therapy may be warranted. Drug resistant HIV-1 variants have been identified with use for preexposure prophylaxis (PrEP) indication following undetected acute HIV-1 infection. PrEP use must only be prescribed to individuals confirmed to be HIV-negative immediately prior to initiating and periodically (at least every 3 months) during use; do not initiate if signs or symptoms of acute HIV-1 infection are present unless negative infection status is confirmed.
valcyte	Clinical toxicity includes granulocytopenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia. Carcinogenic, teratogenic, and caused aspermatogenesis in animal studies.
xeloda	Altered coagulation parameters and/or bleeding, including death, reported with concomitant coumarin-derivative anticoagulants (eg, warfarin, phenprocoumon). Monitor PT and INR frequently in order to adjust anticoagulant dose accordingly. Postmarketing reports showed clinically significant increases in PT and INR in patients who were stabilized on anticoagulants at start of therapy. Age >60 yrs and a diagnosis of cancer independently predispose to an increased risk of coagulopathy.
effexor xr	Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults in short-term studies of major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Monitor and observe closely for clinical worsening, suicidality, or unusual changes in behavior. Not approved for use in pediatric patients.
mobic	NSAIDs may cause an increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, stroke, and serious GI adverse events, including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach or intestines. Elderly patients at greater risk for serious GI events. Contraindicated for the treatment of perioperative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery.
seroquel	Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis. Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior in children, adolescents, and young adults in short-term studies. Monitor closely for worsening, and for emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors in patients who are started on antidepressant therapy. Not approved for use in pediatric patients <10 yrs of age.
seroquel xr	Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis. Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior in children, adolescents, and young adults in short-term studies. Monitor closely for worsening, and for emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors in patients who are started on antidepressant therapy. Not approved for use in pediatric patients <10 yrs of age.
avinza	Contains pellets of morphine sulfate, an opioid agonist and Schedule II controlled substance with an abuse liability similar to other opioid agonists, legal or illicit; assess each patient's risk for opioid abuse or addiction prior to prescribing. Routinely monitor for signs of misuse, abuse, and addiction. Respiratory depression, including fatal cases, may occur even when used as recommended; proper dosing and titration are essential. Monitor for respiratory depression, especially during initiation or following a dose increase. Should only be prescribed by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable in the use of potent opioids for the management of chronic pain. Swallow cap whole or sprinkle contents on applesauce; crushing, chewing, or dissolving the pellets within the cap can cause rapid release and absorption of a potentially fatal dose. Accidental ingestion, especially in children, can result in fatal overdose. Avoid alcohol and alcohol-containing medications while on therapy; may result in an increase of plasma levels and potentially fatal overdose of morphine.
percocet-10	Associated with cases of acute liver failure, at times resulting in liver transplant and death. Most cases of liver injury are associated with acetaminophen (APAP) use at doses >4000mg/day, and often involve >1 APAP-containing product.
pristiq	Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior in children, adolescents, and young adults in short-term studies. Monitor and observe closely for worsening, and emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors. Not approved for use in pediatric patients.
advair diskus	Long-acting β
prozac	Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior in children, adolescents, and young adults in short-term studies. Monitor closely for worsening and for emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors in patients who are started on antidepressant therapy. Not approved for use in children <7 yrs of age.
yaz	Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptive (COC) use. Risk increases with age (>35 yrs of age) and with the number of cigarettes smoked. Should not be used by women who are >35 yrs of age and smoke.
janumet	Lactic acidosis may occur due to metformin accumulation; risk increases with conditions such as sepsis, dehydration, excess alcohol intake, hepatic/renal impairment, and acute congestive heart failure (CHF). If acidosis is suspected, d/c therapy and hospitalize patient immediately.
risperdal consta	Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death; most deaths appeared to be cardiovascular (CV) (eg, heart failure, sudden death) or infectious (eg, pneumonia) in nature. Not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis.
depakote	Fatal hepatic failure reported, usually during first 6 months of treatment. Serious/fatal hepatotoxicity may be preceded by nonspecific symptoms (eg, malaise, weakness, lethargy, facial edema, anorexia, vomiting) or loss of seizure control in patients with epilepsy; monitor closely. Monitor LFTs prior to therapy and at frequent intervals thereafter, especially during first 6 months of treatment. Increased risk of developing fatal hepatotoxicity in children <2 yrs of age, especially if on multiple anticonvulsants, with congenital metabolic disorders, with severe seizure disorders with mental retardation, and with organic brain disease; use with extreme caution and as a sole agent. Increased risk of drug-induced acute liver failure and resultant death in patients with hereditary neurometabolic syndromes caused by DNA mutations of the mitochondrial DNA polymerase gamma (POLG) gene (eg, Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome). Contraindicated in patients known to have mitochondrial disorders caused by POLG mutations and children <2 yrs of age who are clinically suspected of having a mitochondrial disorder. In patients >2 yrs of age who are clinically suspected of having a hereditary mitochondrial disease, drug should only be used after other anticonvulsants have failed; closely monitor for the development of acute liver injury with regular clinical assessments and serum liver testing. May cause major congenital malformations, particularly neural tube defects (eg, spina bifida). May cause decreased IQ scores following in utero exposure. Should only be used to treat pregnant women with epilepsy or bipolar disorder if other medications have failed to control their symptoms or are otherwise unacceptable. Do not administer to a woman of childbearing potential unless the drug is essential to the management of her medical condition; use effective contraception. Life-threatening pancreatitis reported; d/c if pancreatitis is diagnosed and initiate appropriate treatment.
altace	D/C when pregnancy is detected. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) can cause injury/death to the developing fetus.
coumadin tabs	May cause major or fatal bleeding; monitor INR regularly. Drugs, dietary changes, and other factors affect INR levels achieved with therapy. Instruct patients about prevention measures to minimize risk of bleeding and to report signs/symptoms of bleeding.
incivek	Fatal and nonfatal serious skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) reported. D/C combination therapy immediately if serious skin rash reactions, including rash with systemic symptoms or a progressive severe rash develop. Consider discontinuing other medications known to be associated with serious skin reactions. Promptly refer patients for urgent medical care.
wellbutrin xl	Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in short-term studies in children, adolescents, and young adults with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Monitor and observe closely for clinical worsening, suicidality, or unusual changes in behavior. Advise families and caregivers of the need for close observation and communication with the prescriber. Not approved for use in pediatric patients. Not approved for smoking cessation; neuropsychiatric reactions reported in patients taking bupropion for smoking cessation.
evista	Increased risk of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) reported. Avoid use in women with active or past history of venous thromboembolism (VTE). Increased risk of death due to stroke in postmenopausal women with documented coronary heart disease or at increased risk for major coronary events; consider risk-benefit balance in women at risk for stroke.
chantix	Serious neuropsychiatric events including, but not limited to, depression, suicidal ideation, suicide attempt, and completed suicide reported. Some reported cases may be complicated by nicotine withdrawal symptoms in patients who stopped smoking. Monitor for neuropsychiatric symptoms, including changes in behavior, hostility, agitation, depressed mood, and suicide-related events. Worsening of preexisting psychiatric illness and completed suicide reported in some patients attempting to quit smoking while on therapy. Advise patients and caregivers that the patient should stop taking therapy and contact a healthcare provider immediately if agitation, hostility, depressed mood, changes in behavior or thinking, suicidal ideation, or suicidal behavior occurs. Safety and efficacy not established in patients with serious psychiatric illness (eg, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, major depressive disorder). Weigh risks against benefits of use.
azor	D/C when pregnancy is detected. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) can cause death/injury to the developing fetus.
premarin vaginal	Estrogens increase the risk of endometrial cancer. Perform adequate diagnostic measures, including endometrial sampling, to rule out malignancy with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding. Should not be used for the prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD) or dementia. Increased risks of myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, invasive breast cancer, pulmonary embolism (PE), and deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in postmenopausal women (50-79 yrs of age) reported. Increased risk of developing probable dementia in postmenopausal women ≥65 yrs of age reported. Should be prescribed at the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with treatment goals and risks.
geodon	Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death; most deaths appeared to be cardiovascular (CV) (eg, heart failure [HF], sudden death) or infectious (eg, pneumonia) in nature. Not approved for treatment of dementia-related psychosis.
avandamet	Thiazolidinediones, including rosiglitazone, cause or exacerbate congestive heart failure (CHF) in some patients. After initiation and dose increases, observe for signs and symptoms of heart failure (HF); manage accordingly and consider discontinuation or dose reduction if signs/symptoms develop. Not recommended in patients with symptomatic HF. Contraindicated with established NYHA Class III or IV HF. Lactic acidosis may occur due to metformin accumulation; risk increases with conditions such as sepsis, dehydration, excess alcohol intake, hepatic/renal impairment, and acute CHF. If acidosis is suspected, d/c therapy and hospitalize patient immediately.
invega sustenna	Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Not approved for use in patients with dementia-related psychosis.
viread	Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, reported with the use of nucleoside analogues in combination with other antiretrovirals. Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis reported in hepatitis B virus (HBV)-infected patients who have discontinued therapy; closely monitor hepatic function with both clinical and lab follow-up for at least several months. If appropriate, resumption of anti-hepatitis B therapy may be warranted.
enbrel	Increased risk for developing serious infections (eg, active tuberculosis [TB], latent TB reactivation, invasive fungal infections, bacterial/viral infections, opportunistic infections) leading to hospitalization or death, mostly with concomitant use with immunosuppressants (eg, methotrexate [MTX], corticosteroids). D/C if serious infection or sepsis develops. Active/latent reactivation of TB may present with disseminated or extrapulmonary disease; test for latent TB before and during therapy and initiate treatment for latent TB prior to therapy. Consider empiric antifungal therapy in patients at risk for invasive fungal infections who develop severe systemic illness. Monitor for development of infection during and after treatment, including development of TB in patients who tested negative for latent TB infection prior to therapy. Lymphoma and other malignancies, some fatal, reported in children and adolescents.
forteo	Prescribe only when benefits outweigh risks; do not prescribe for patients who are at increased baseline risk for osteosarcoma (including those with Paget's disease of bone or unexplained alkaline phosphatase elevations, pediatric and young adult patients with open epiphyses, or prior external beam or implant radiation therapy involving the skeleton).
sporanox	Contraindicated with cisapride, oral midazolam, nisoldipine, felodipine, pimozide, quinidine, dofetilide, triazolam, levacetylmethadol (levomethadyl), lovastatin, simvastatin, ergot alkaloids (eg, dihydroergotamine, ergometrine [ergonovine], ergotamine, methylergometrine [methylergonovine]), or methadone. May increase plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by potent CYP3A4 inhibitor pathway. Serious cardiovascular events (eg, QT prolongation, torsades de pointes, ventricular tachycardia, cardiac arrest, and/or sudden death) reported with cisapride, pimozide, methadone, levacetylmethadol, or quinidine. Reassess or d/c use if signs/symptoms of congestive heart failure (CHF) occur. (Cap) Do not use cap for onychomycosis with ventricular dysfunction (eg, CHF or history of CHF).
exforge	D/C when pregnancy is detected. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) can cause injury/death to the developing fetus.
tri-sprintec	Cigarette smoking increases risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) events. Risk increases with age (>35 yrs of age) and with the number of cigarettes smoked. Should not be used by women who are >35 yrs of age and smoke.
ketek pack	Contraindicated with myasthenia gravis. Fatal and life-threatening respiratory failure in patients with myasthenia gravis reported.
cymbalta	Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior in children, adolescents, and young adults in short-term studies. Monitor and observe closely for worsening, and for emergence of suicidal thoughts and behavior. Not approved for use in pediatric patients.
lotrel	D/C when pregnancy is detected. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) can cause injury/death to the developing fetus.
sotret	Not for use by females who are or may become pregnant. Severe birth defects, including death, have been documented. Increased risk of spontaneous abortion and premature births reported. D/C immediately if pregnancy occurs during treatment and refer to an obstetrician-gynecologist experienced in reproductive toxicity for evaluation and counseling. Approved only under special restricted distribution program called iPLEDGE™. Prescribers, patients, pharmacies, and distributors must be registered and activated with the program.
victoza	Causes dose dependent and treatment duration dependent thyroid C-cell tumors at clinically relevant exposures in animal studies. It is unknown whether drug causes thyroid C-cell tumors (eg, medullary thyroid carcinoma [MTC]) in humans. Contraindicated in patients with a personal or family history of MTC and in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 2 (MEN 2). It is unknown whether monitoring with serum calcitonin or thyroid ultrasound will mitigate human risk of thyroid C-cell tumors. Counsel patients on the risk and symptoms of thyroid tumors.
glucophage xr	Lactic acidosis reported (rare); increased risk with increased age, diabetes mellitus (DM), renal dysfunction, congestive heart failure (CHF), and conditions with risk of hypoperfusion and hypoxemia. Avoid use in patients ≥80 yrs of age unless renal function is normal. Withhold therapy in the presence of any condition associated with hypoxemia, dehydration, or sepsis. Avoid with clinical or lab evidence of hepatic disease. Caution against excessive alcohol intake; may potentiate the effects of metformin on lactate metabolism. Temporarily d/c prior to any IV radiocontrast study or surgical procedures. D/C use and institute appropriate therapy if lactic acidosis occurs.
lotensin	D/C when pregnancy is detected. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) can cause injury and death to the developing fetus.
erbitux	Serious infusion reactions, some fatal, reported; immediately interrupt and permanently d/c infusion if these reactions occur. Cardiopulmonary arrest and/or sudden death occurred in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) treated with cetuximab in combination with radiation therapy or with European Union (EU)-approved cetuximab in combination with platinum-based therapy with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU); closely monitor serum electrolytes during and after therapy.
lexapro	Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults in short-term studies of major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Monitor and observe closely for clinical worsening, suicidality, or unusual changes in behavior in patients who are started on antidepressant therapy. Not approved for use in pediatric patients <12 yrs of age.
paxil cr	Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in short-term studies in children, adolescents, and young adults with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Monitor and observe closely for clinical worsening, suicidality, or unusual changes in behavior in patients who are started on antidepressant therapy. Not approved for use in pediatric patients.
arthrotec	Misoprostol can cause abortion, premature birth or birth defects. Uterine rupture reported when used to induce labor or abortion beyond 8th week of pregnancy. Has an abortifacient property and must not be given to others. Should not be taken by pregnant women. Use only in women of childbearing potential if at high risk for gastric or duodenal ulcers or complications with NSAID therapy; must have had a negative serum pregnancy test within 2 weeks before therapy, must be capable of complying with effective contraceptive measures, and must have received both oral and written warnings of the hazards of misoprostol, risk of contraceptive failure, the danger to other women of childbearing potential should the drug be taken by mistake, and to begin therapy on 2nd or 3rd day of menstrual period. NSAIDs may increase risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, and serious GI adverse events including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach or intestines. Increased risk of serious GI events in elderly. Contraindicated for the treatment of perioperative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery.
avastin	GI perforation reported; d/c with GI perforation. Increased incidence of wound-healing and surgical complications; d/c at least 28 days prior to elective surgery. Do not initiate for at least 28 days after surgery and until surgical wound is fully healed. D/C with wound dehiscence. Severe or fatal hemorrhage, including hemoptysis, GI bleeding, CNS hemorrhage, epistaxis, and vaginal bleeding have occurred; avoid with serious hemorrhage or recent hemoptysis.
trinessa	Cigarette smoking increases risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) events. Risk increases with age (>35 yrs of age) and with the number of cigarettes smoked. Should not be used by women who are >35 yrs of age and smoke.
wellbutrin sr	Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior in children, adolescents, and young adults in short-term trials. Monitor closely for worsening, and for emergence of suicidal thoughts and behavior. Advise families and caregivers of the need for close observation and communication with the prescriber. Serious neuropsychiatric reactions reported in patients taking bupropion for smoking cessation; not approved for smoking cessation. (Budeprion SR) Not approved for use in pediatric patients.
actoplus met	Thiazolidinediones, including pioglitazone, cause or exacerbate congestive heart failure (CHF) in some patients. After initiation and dose increases, monitor carefully for signs and symptoms of heart failure (HF); manage accordingly and consider discontinuation or dose reduction if HF develops. Not recommended with symptomatic HF. Contraindicated with established NYHA Class III or IV HF. Lactic acidosis may occur due to metformin accumulation; risk increases with conditions such as sepsis, dehydration, excess alcohol intake, hepatic/renal impairment, and acute CHF. If acidosis is suspected, d/c therapy and hospitalize patient immediately.
actos	Thiazolidinediones cause or exacerbate congestive heart failure (CHF) in some patients. After initiation and dose increases, monitor carefully for signs and symptoms of heart failure (HF) and manage accordingly; consider discontinuation or dose reduction. Not recommended in patients with symptomatic HF. Contraindicated with established NYHA Class III or IV HF.
premarin tabs	Estrogens increase the risk of endometrial cancer. Perform adequate diagnostic measures, including endometrial sampling, to rule out malignancy with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding. Should not be used for the prevention of cardiovascular disease or dementia. Increased risks of myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, invasive breast cancer, pulmonary embolism (PE), and deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in postmenopausal women (50-79 yrs of age) reported. Increased risk of developing probable dementia in postmenopausal women ≥65 yrs of age reported. Should be prescribed at the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with treatment goals and risks.
ultracet	Associated with cases of acute liver failure, at times resulting in liver transplant and death. Most cases of liver injury are associated with acetaminophen (APAP) use at doses >4000mg/day and often involve >1 APAP-containing product.
zerit	Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, reported with nucleoside analogues. Fatal lactic acidosis reported in pregnant women who received the combination of stavudine and didanosine with other antiretroviral agents; use with caution. Fatal and nonfatal pancreatitis reported when used as part of a combination regimen that included didanosine.
yasmin 28	Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) side effects from combination oral contraceptive (COC) use. Risk increases with age (>35 yrs of age) and with the number of cigarettes smoked. Should not be used by women who are >35 yrs of age and smoke.
strattera	Increased risk of suicidal ideation in short-term studies in children or adolescents with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD); balance this risk with the clinical need. Closely monitor for suicidality (suicidal thinking and behavior), clinical worsening, or unusual changes in behavior. Not approved for major depressive disorder.
epogen	Increased risk of death, myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, venous thromboembolism (VTE), thrombosis of vascular access, and tumor progression or recurrence. Use the lowest dose sufficient to reduce/avoid the need for RBC transfusions. Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD): Greater risks for death, serious adverse cardiovascular (CV) reactions, and stroke when administered to target Hgb level >11g/dL. Cancer: Shortened overall survival and/or increased risk of tumor progression or recurrence in patients with breast, non-small cell lung, head and neck, lymphoid, and cervical cancers. Must enroll in and comply with the ESA APPRISE Oncology Program to prescribe and/or dispense drug to patients. Use only for anemia from myelosuppressive chemotherapy. Not indicated for patients receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy when anticipated outcome is cure. D/C following completion of a chemotherapy course. Perisurgery: Due to increased risk of deep venous thrombosis (DVT), DVT prophylaxis is recommended.
synthroid	Do not use for the treatment of obesity or weight loss; doses within range of daily hormonal requirements are ineffective for weight reduction in euthyroid patients. Serious or life-threatening manifestations of toxicity may occur when given in larger doses, particularly when given in association with sympathomimetic amines.
oxycontin	Exposes users to risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, leading to overdose and death; assess each patient's risk prior to prescribing and monitor regularly for development of these behaviors/conditions. Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression may occur; monitor during initiation or following a dose increase. Crushing, dissolving, or chewing tab can cause rapid release and absorption of potentially fatal dose; instruct patients to swallow tab whole. Accidental ingestion, especially by children, can result in a fatal overdose. Prolonged use during pregnancy can result in neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome; advise pregnant women of the risk and ensure availability of appropriate treatment. Concomitant use of CYP3A4 inhibitors or discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers can result in oxycodone overdose; monitor patients receiving concomitant CYP3A4 inhibitors/inducers.
serevent diskus	Long-acting β
flector	NSAIDs may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events, myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, and serious GI adverse events including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach or intestines that can be fatal. Patients with cardiovascular disease (CVD) or risk factors for CVD may be at greater risk. Elderly patients are at a greater risk for GI events. Contraindicated in the perioperative setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery.
eloxatin	Anaphylactic reactions reported and may occur within min of administration. Epinephrine, corticosteroids, and antihistamines have been employed to alleviate symptoms of anaphylaxis.
avandia	Thiazolidinediones, including rosiglitazone, cause or exacerbate congestive heart failure (CHF) in some patients. After initiation and dose increases, observe for signs and symptoms of heart failure (HF); manage accordingly and consider discontinuation or dose reduction if signs/symptoms develop. Not recommended in patients with symptomatic HF. Contraindicated with established NYHA Class III or IV HF.
risperdal	Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis.
remicade	Increased risk for developing serious infections (eg, active tuberculosis [TB], latent TB reactivation, invasive fungal infections, bacterial/viral infections, opportunistic infections) leading to hospitalization or death, mostly with concomitant use with immunosuppressants (eg, methotrexate [MTX], corticosteroids). D/C if serious infection or sepsis develops. Active/latent reactivation TB may present with disseminated or extrapulmonary disease; test for latent TB before and during therapy and initiate treatment for latent TB prior to infliximab use. Invasive fungal infections reported; consider empiric antifungal therapy in patients at risk who develop severe systemic illness. Consider risks and benefits prior to therapy in patients with chronic or recurrent infection. Monitor patients for development of infection during and after treatment, including development of TB in patients who tested negative for latent TB infection prior to therapy. Lymphoma and other malignancies, some fatal, reported in children and adolescents. Postmarketing cases of aggressive and fatal hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (HSTCL) reported in patients with Crohn's disease (CD) or ulcerative colitis (UC) and the majority were in adolescent and young adult males; all of these patients were treated concomitantly with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine.
celebrex	May increase risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke, which can be fatal; increased risk with duration of use and with CV disease (CVD) or risk factors for CVD. Increased risk of serious GI adverse events (eg, bleeding, ulceration, perforation of stomach/intestines) that can be fatal and occur anytime during use without warning symptoms; elderly patients are at a greater risk. Contraindicated for treatment of perioperative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery.
revlimid	Do not use during pregnancy; may cause birth defects or embryo-fetal death. Females of reproductive potential should have 2 negative pregnancy tests prior to treatment and must use 2 forms of contraception or continuously abstain from heterosexual sex during and for 4 weeks after treatment. Available only through a restricted distribution program, the Revlimid REMS program. May cause significant neutropenia and thrombocytopenia. Patients on therapy for del 5q myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) should have their CBC monitored weekly for the first 8 weeks of therapy and at least monthly thereafter; may require dose interruption and/or reduction and use of blood product support and/or growth factors. Increased risk of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) reported in patients with multiple myeloma treated with lenalidomide and dexamethasone; observe for signs/symptoms of thromboembolism. Instruct patients to seek medical care if symptoms such as SOB, chest pain, or arm or leg swelling develop. Consider taking prophylactic measures for venous thromboembolism based on assessment of individual's underlying risk factors.
